Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to begin working for a Q and A bot with Python 4 Part 1.
We're going to load the data explore the data format and create a vocabulary.
Let's get started.
I'm going to open up a new notebook.
All right.
My new notebook I'm going to begin by importing pickle because we have a specialized file format for
the data which is going to be a pickle file essentially a compressed way of saving our data.
And then later on we may be using some pie.
So go ahead and at the top.
Important umpires NDP and we have a training set and a test set for the training set.
We've already saved that under the deep learning folder for you.
You just need to say with open and then go ahead and say train underscore.
Cue a thought text.
Again that should already be located for you under the deep learning folder.
And then we want to not just read it but read it as a binary file and then as f or really any variable
you want and then we'll say our training data is equal to and we're going to use that pixel functionality
to load in that file.
That's why we needed to read it as not just ah but read binary.
So we're gonna do that for the training data and then just go ahead and copy and paste this and do the
same for our test data.
So say test and then we'll label this variable test data so run those two cells.
And now if you actually check out the type of this data for example the type of the test data you'll
notice that it's a list and it's gonna be the same thing for the training data.
Essentially the training data and testing data are the same we already did the train test split for
you.
So let's go ahead and check out the length of the data.
We have ten thousand points for training data and then we have 1000 points for test data.
So have more or less kind of a 10 to 1 ratio for testing data versus training data.
And if we take a look at the training data you'll notice it's essentially a list of tuples.
So let's go ahead and grab one of these tuples.
We'll just grab the very first one off that training data.
And here we can see the three main components.
We can see the story the question and then the answer or the solution.
So the story here is Mary moves to the bathroom.
Sandra journey to the bedroom.
The question was Is Sandra in the hallway.
And the correct answer is no so if you want to actually form at this she can read these a little nicer
we can use some joint functionality.
So for example I can say trained data remember this is kind of a tuple with a list as well to listen
side of it plus a string.
So I can index off of this.
So here we have the story itself.
So let's go ahead and join that
and essentially takes every item in the list and then joins it with a space in between.
So it actually prints out the story.
So here we see Mary move to the bathroom stand the journey to the bedroom and we can do the same thing
for the question itself just to make it a little easier to read.
QUESTION Was the sander in the hallway and then finally the correct answer for that first one is no.
So last item is no so what we want to do to begin with is set up a vocabulary of all the words inside
our data set and to do this we need to make sure that we take not just the training data but also the
test data into account.
That way we make sure that when we're actually testing our algorithm we don't get confused by maybe
new names that didn't show up in the train data show up in the test data.
So let's create a vocabulary and to do this I'm going to create a new variable called all data and I
was going to set this equal to my test data concatenated with my train data.
Remember test data and train data themselves.
They're just huge lists of tuples where each tuple is three of these.
So what I want to do is just get a giant list with a bunch tuples in it.
So now if I check out my length of all my data it's now eleven thousand.
So what I want to do is essentially use a set in Python to add words to my set.
And that way I can get a sense of all the unique words.
Remember a set in Python is an unordered collection of unique elements.
So essentially what I'm going to do here is I will say for the story the question and the answer in
all data because remember each item here is essentially organized as a tuple of three items.
The question the story and then the answer.
So for the story the question and the answer and all my data I'm going to say the following I'll say
vocab is equal to vocab that union and then I'm going to convert that story into a set.
So let's first see this on an example story.
So remember we have a story right here.
So train data 0 0.
This would be the story.
So if I were to call set on this it would return back.
This set right here so what I'm going to be doing is right before this for loop I'll say vocab is equal
to an empty set and then I'm going to create a set of the story and then set vocab equal to vocab.
The union of the set of the story and in case you're not too familiar with what a union and sets is
there is a link in the notebook that explains it but it's essentially it's going to find all the distinct
elements between the two sets between our current vocabulary and this new story coming in.
So you can check out the link in the notebook.
It looks something like this.
Essentially the union.
So here's the union between three sets A B and C..
It's just going to be where they have all distinct elements in present in all the sets.
Essentially just the simple way of continually adding any unique words and keeping to account the previous
words we had.
So we can say vocab is equal to vocab.
That union that set story and then we'll do the same thing with the same vocab and we'll union with
the set of the question.
Then we're going to add in the two possible answers which are yes or no so say vocab at a no and vocab
and yes.
And now if I check out my vocab here I have a set of all the possible vocab words.
And later on we're gonna be lower casing all of these so proper names will be lowercase.
But in general you can see that there actually aren't that many words.
So later on when we're constructing our own stories and on questions we're going to be limited in what
names and what words we can use.
So keep that in mind.
Now one more thing we have to do for the vocab is need to add one to it for capturing the length because
later on we're going to use carris pad sequences and zero is a placeholder for that.
So I'm going to create one more variable here called the vocab length and set that equal to the length
of this vocab set and then I'm going to add one to it because later on when we use Kerry's pad sequences
we have a little placeholder so we have right now our entire vocabulary and we also know the length
of the vocab plus one.
So essentially thirty seven unique words plus that one place holder that we're going to use later on.
So now what I need to do is figure out how long is the longest story and how long is the longest question.
So the way we can do that is actually not so bad.
What I can say is check the length of data zero.
So this is gonna be calculating the longest story so say check the length the data 0 4 data in all data.
Recall that all data as you go through it.
So for example the very first item here.
Again it's a tuple.
So I'm saying data 0.
So that would be adding in another zero off of this.
So that's going to grab the story right here.
So data 0 4 data and all data.
So for every tuple.
Go ahead and grab that story and then check the length of it and what I'm going to do is simply useless
comprehension to make a list of this and this will then be the links of all the stories so all story
lengths to be equal to that so if I check that out there's a length of all my stories.
Essentially how many words or piece of punctuation that include and what I really want to know is the
maximum length of the story.
And we're gonna need that later on for again padding our sequences so the longer story is a hundred
fifty six.
So let's go ahead and make a variable called Max underscore story underscore Elin is equal to 1 56 and
then we're going to follow the exact same logic for calculating the maximum question length.
So simply say Max question length is equal to the max and then we're going to do our list comprehension
here check the length of data but in this case we'll index that one since that's the index for the story
and they'll say for data and all data.
Be careful with the amount of parentheses and square braces we're using here.
You ever get a typo error.
Go ahead and run a provided notebook directly.
So if we check out our max question length you should get back that six words is the max question.
OK.
So just a quick review of what we did here.
We explored the data a little bit.
Open it up using pixel functionality.
Saw that it was a list where every item in the list is a tuple with three parts the story the question
and then the correct answer a yes or no.
And then we built out a vocabulary using a set and then checking the unions.
We just kept adding more words to the set until we had all the unique words presented throughout the
questions and the stories.
And then we added no one yes because we know those are the only two possible answers and then we were
able to calculate the longest story as well as the longest question.
And we're going to be using that for Kerry's pad sequences once we vector the data which is coming up
next to the next lecture will explore using Kerry's pre processing for padding sequences and the token
Nisar.
I'll see you there.